mimosa-sprite
===========
## Overview

This is a module that will generate [CSS sprites](http://css-tricks.com/css-sprites/) and corresponding stylesheets for your Mimosa project.

For an example Mimosa app that uses this module, checkout the [MimosaSpriteExample](https://github.com/dbashford/MimosaSpriteExample) project.

For more information regarding Mimosa, see http://mimosa.io.

## Usage

Add `'sprite'` to your list of modules.  That's all!  Mimosa will install the module for you when you start up.

This module depends on node-sprite-generator which in turn requires that you have either Cairo or Image/GraphicsMagick installed. So, for example, is you are using `brew`, you should execute `brew install GraphicsMagick` and `brew install ImageMagick` prior to using this module. See the [node-sprite-generator](https://github.com/selaux/node-sprite-generator#installation) installation docs for details.

Once this module has been added to your project, just execute `mimosa sprite` to generate your sprites.  This module comes with some default config (see below) and if your project matches that config, you won't have any other work to do.

## Functionality

This module will generate sprite images and Stylus/CSS artifacts for those sprites.

Sprites will be generated for each folder in the `sprite.inDir`. So, if `sprite.inDir` points to `images/sprite` (the default), and inside `images/sprite` there are 3 folders named `foo`, `bar` and `baz`, then 3 sprite `.png`s will be created called `foo.png`, `bar.png` and `baz.png`. Those images will be placed in the `sprite.outDir`, which is by default `images`.

For each sprite created, this module will place a stylesheet asset (either Stylus or CSS depending on config, Stylus by default), in the `sprite.stylesheetOutDir`.

If you are building many sprites, and those sprites have a set of images in common, you can place the common images in the `sprite.commonDir`, by default `images/sprite/common`.  This special folder will not create a sprite of its own, but any images inside this folder will be included in all sprites.

node-sprite-generator offers up a large set of [configuration options](https://github.com/selaux/node-sprite-generator#options). `sprite.options` can be used to override and set those options. `sprite.options` can be an object or a function. If it is an object, the values in the object will overwrite the config mimosa-sprite creates for each sprite. If `sprite.options` is a function, it will be called with the generated config giving you the opportunity to modify it.  This provides a programmatic means to update or override the configuration.

## Default Config

```
sprite:
  inDir: "images/sprite"
  outDir: "images"
  commonDir: "common"
  stylesheetOutDir: "stylesheets/sprite"
  options: {}
```

* `inDir`: a string. The folder inside which are the images to be sprited. Every folder at the root of this folder will generate a single sprite. This path is relative to `watch.sourceDir`, which defaults to `assets`
* `outDir`: Where to place generated sprites relative to `watch.sourceDir` Placing the output images outside the sprite directory makes it easy to exclude the sprite directory from being copied to `watch.compiledDir`.
* `commonDir`: Folder inside which are images to be included in every sprite. This is a string path relative to `inDir`.
* `stylesheetOutDir`: Where to place the output stylesheets. Path is relative to `watch.sourceDir`
* `options`, an object or function. Pass-through options for [node-sprite-generator](https://github.com/selaux/node-sprite-generator#options ), the tool this module uses under the hood to do the heavy lifting. mimosa-sprite provides the values for that tool's `src`, `spritePath` and `stylesheetPath` based on the `inDir` folder's structure. Other config options can be placed in this `options` object. For more control, `options` can be a function that takes the inferred config generated by mimosa-sprite. If you are generating 10 sprites, the options function will be called 10 times for each sprite, giving you the chance to make specific modifications to the node-sprite-generator config.

## Example Config

```
sprite:
  options:
    layout: 'horizontal'
```

* `sprite.options.layout` is a pass-through to node-sprite-generator's [layout](https://github.com/selaux/node-sprite-generator#optionslayout) config.  This is one example of providing config through to node-sprite-generator.